APPLICATION FORM AND CONDITIONS  
Resident Parking Permit  
 
Applications and supporting documents can be sent to cs@northsydney.nsw.gov.au   01/07/2026 
 
 New  Replacement  Building Works  Interstate 
 Vehicle Repair  Tradesperson  Carshare  Review Panel 
Name: 
Address: 
Phone: Mobile: Email: 
There are _________ parking space(s) attached to the property. There are _________ vehicles registered at my property. 
If the property has access to an off-street parking space/s, then a copy of the registration papers of the vehicle using this space must 
also be supplied.  
VEHICLE DETAILS    
1st Registration/Plate number  2nd Registration/Plate number  
Make: Model:       Year: Colour: Make:  Model:    Year: Colour: 
 
PLEASE NOTE 
All Resident Parking Permits Expire on the 31st of March each year. If the Permit is not renewed before midnight of March 31, it will expire, 
and you may be liable for a parking fine. It is the Permit Holder’s responsibility to renew the Resident Parking Permit each year.  
The council incurs costs associated with running this scheme not covered through the fee charged, therefore, no refunds are offered for 
fees paid for Resident Parking Permits. Please see North Sydney Council’s website for fees: www.northsydney.nsw.gov.au/rpf 
 
RESIDENT DIGITAL PARKING PERMIT 
 
Please choose one option: 
 
1. Privately owned vehicle 
 
□ Current Registration papers of the vehicle registered to the applicant’s North Sydney address  
 PLUS one proof of residential status: 
□  Driver’s License □ Residential Lease Agreement □ Pension Concession Card 
□  Utility bill □ Rental Bond Board receipt □ Official Govt. correspondence (excluding RMS) 
□  Phone Bill □ Centrelink Healthcare Card □ Electoral Card/Roll 
□  Bank Statement □ Home Contents Insurance  
 
2. Borrowed vehicle:    Please turn to page 2, Section 2 
 
3. Company vehicle:    Please turn to page 2, Section 3 
 
PRIVACY STATEMENT 
 
North Sydney Council is collecting your personal information for the purposes of processing an application or submission. The supply of personal information 
is entirely voluntary. If you elect not to provide or do not wish to provide your personal information, Council may not be able to process your application or 
act on or acknowledge your submission. North Sydney Council shall be regarded as the agency that holds your personal informat ion and access to your 
personal information by interested parties,  may be released in line with Council policies. North Sydney Council may publish any personal information included 
in a submission on a proposal or proposed development. You have a right to access your personal information held by Council. You also have a right to have 
your personal information corrected or amended by Council. Applications by members of the public to view Council’s records wh ich are not in the public 
arena are subject to the provisions of Privacy and Personal Information Protection Act  1998, Government Information (Public Access) Act 2009 and North 
Sydney Council’s Privacy Management Plan.  
I have read and understand the Privacy Statement 
Signed: ...........................................................................................  Date: ............................................................................................  
 
FOR COUNCIL USE 
Amount Paid $: Permit No: Area No: 
Officer: Receipt No: Date Issued: 
1st Permit:   2nd/3rd Permit   Shared Permit   
Cancel Permit No: Old Car Rego No: Temp Permit Expiry: 

APPLICATION FORM AND CONDITIONS  
Resident Parking Permit  
 
Applications and supporting documents can be sent to cs@northsydney.nsw.gov.au   01/07/2026 
 
OTHER RESIDENT DIGITAL PARKING PERMITS 
 
Section 2: Borrowed vehicle 
Please supply the following documents with your application 
 
□  Copy of registered owner’s registration papers and driver’s license 
□  A letter from the registered owner advising Council of the person who has possession of the vehicle with a description of it’ s 
made, model, year and exterior colour 
□  Two proofs of residential status of permit applicant (see first page) 
 
Section 3: Company Vehicle 
Please supply the following documents with your application. 
 
□  A letter of company letterhead advising Council of the person who has possession of the vehicle which must include the 
borrower’s address, the vehicle’s make, model, year and exterior colour.  
□  Two proofs of residential status (see first page) 
 
TEMPORARY DIGITAL PARKING PERMITS 
 
A Temporary Parking Permit does not allow you to park in areas such as “No Standing”, “No Parking” or any other restriction that 
does not specifically state “Permit Holders Excepted” for the allocated area. A Permit does not guarantee the permit holder a 
parking space outside the property. 
 
Building Works - Minimum fee $27.00 
• The owner/lessee must hold a current Development and Construction Certificate approval. These must establish that works 
are either on the garage/carport or demonstrate that building works prevent access to off street parking spaces.  
• The applicant must meet the identification requirements of the Residential Parking Scheme.  
• Cost is based on Council’s Resident Parking Fees on a monthly pro -rata basis.  
 
Please supply the following documents with your application: 
 
□  Documentation from Strata/Body Corporate or Building Company that demonstrates that the building works prevent access 
to property’s off-street parking space. This must also say how long the works will be for.  
□  2 proofs of residence (see page 1)  
 
Vehicle In Repair - Minimum fee $27.00 
• The applicant must meet the requirements of the Residential Parking Scheme and submit documentation from the relevant 
smash repair company or your insurance company for the subject vehicle.  
• Permit will be issued for a maximum of one month after which a new application will need to be made and will be assessed 
on merit. 
 
Please supply the following documents with your application: 
□  Documentation from Repair Company OR Insurance company for the resident’s current vehicle with a Resident Parking 
Permit 
□  2 proofs of residence (see page 1) 
 
Interstate Vehicles – Minimum fee $27.00  
• The applicant must meet the requirements of the Residential Parking Scheme. 
• Permit will be issued for a maximum of three months only. 
• Once NSW registration has been obtained, a Resident Parking Permit must be applied for. (Refer application and checklist) 
 
Please supply the following documents with your application: 
□  Interstate registration documents for the vehicle. 
□  2 proofs of residence (see page 1) 
 
Tradesperson - $136.00 per week or part thereof 
• Permit will be issued for a maximum of seven days after which a new application will need to be made and will be assessed 
on merit. Permits are available for a maximum of two weeks. 
• A maximum of 2 Tradesperson’s Permits are available per dwelling at any one time. 
 
Please supply the following documents with your application 
□  Registration Plate number/s of Trades Vehicle that will be attending to the property under the Tradesperson’s Permit.  
□  1 proof of residence (see page 1) 
APPLICATION FORM AND CONDITIONS  
Resident Parking Permit  
 
Applications and supporting documents can be sent to cs@northsydney.nsw.gov.au   01/07/2026 
 
SECTION 1 – APPLICATION FOR A DIGITAL RESIDENT PARKING PERMIT 
 
Enquiries, please phone 9936 8100 
 
1.1 GENERAL INFORMATION 
 
1.1.1. Generally, residents of the North Sydney council area who do not have off-street parking available for vehicles 
at their residence may apply for a Resident Parking Permit provided that: 
 
• the vehicle is currently registered within NSW 
• the vehicle is registered in the applicant’s name, to the applicant’s North Sydney residential address or is 
a company or borrowed vehicle normally parked at that address. 
• A Parking Permit does not allow one to park in areas such as “No Standing”, “No Parking” or any other 
restriction that does not specifically state “Permit Holders Excepted” for the allocated area. A Permit does 
not guarantee the permit holder a parking space outside the property. 
• the vehicle is not a caravan, box or boat trailer etc. 
• the vehicle weighs less than three tonnes 
 
Permits for interstate registrations will not be renewed. 
 
1.1.2. In the case of a company or borrowed vehicle, a written authorisation from the company or owner stating that 
the applicant has complete private use of the vehicle and that it is usually parked overnight at his/her place of 
residence must be supplied. This letter must accompany your application to Council. 
 
1.1.3. Non-resident vehicle owners, tradespeople and hotel or hostel guests are not eligible for Parking Permits. 
 
1.1.4. An annual fee is required for a Resident Parking Permit. The fee is reduced for applications received 
throughout the year. Please see North Sydney Council’s website for fees, www.northsydney.nsw.gov.au/rpf. 
Eligible pensioners pay 50% of the associated fee. To be eligible for the pensioner discount, proof of pensioner 
status must accompany each application, e.g. a copy of your pension card. 
 
1.1.5. Holders of Resident Parking Permits who change their vehicle or vehicle’s registration plates must notify the 
Council within seven days. A replacement permit will then be issued. A fee is payable for a replacement permit. 
Please see North Sydney Council’s website for fees, www.northsydney.nsw.gov.au/rpf 
 
1.1.6. Residents living at the same dwelling may share a Resident Parking Permit provided all eligibility requirements 
are met. Only one vehicle at a time may use the permit and must park in the nominated Resident Parking 
Zone. 
 
1.2 WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW 
 
1.2.1. Resident parking permits are subject to Council policy. The Resident Parking Permit entitlements, as adopted 
by Council on 16 February 2009 are summarised below: 
 
Step 1 Calculate on-street parking 
dependence 
Equals number of vehicles registered to your property minus 
number of off-street parking spaces attached to your property. 
Step 2 Calculate Reduced Maximum 
Entitlement  
Equals Maximum Entitlement (from Table below) minus 
number of off-street parking spaces attached to your property. 
Step 3 Parking Permit Entitlement Equals the lesser value obtained at Step 1 and Step 2. 
APPLICATION FORM AND CONDITIONS  
Resident Parking Permit  
 
Applications and supporting documents can be sent to cs@northsydney.nsw.gov.au   01/07/2026 
 
If the property has access to an off-street parking space/s, then a copy of the registration papers of the 
vehicle using this space must also be supplied. 
 
An off-street parking space is defined as; any parking space, garage or car port that is within the boundary of 
the private property. 
 
 
Property Description 
 Maximum Entitlement 
 Parking 
Zone A 
Parking 
Zone B 
Parking 
Zone C 
Detached House, Semi -Detached House, Boarding House (per 
building), Duplex (per unit) 
    
 2 3 3 
Attached Dwelling (Townhouse)   
a) Three or more bedrooms  2 3 3 
b) One or two bedrooms  1 2 2 
Apartment Buildings (within Commercial, Mixed Use and 
Residential “D” Neighbourhood Business Zones (per unit)   
a) If Development Approval given before 30/6/98 and/or 
Occupation Certificate given before 30/6/99  1 1 1 
b) If Development Approval given from 1/7/98 and/or 
Occupation Certificate given from 1/7/99  0 0 0 
Apartment Buildings (outside Commercial, Mixed Use and 
Residential “D” Neighbourhood Business Zones (per unit)   
a) Three or more bedrooms  1 2 2 
b) One or two bedrooms  1 1 2 
 
For each residential address, the maximum entitlement is reduced by the number of off -street parking 
spaces within the property. 
 
For Example: 
 
• If there is one vehicle registered to the address and 1 parking space on the property, then there is no 
entitlement available for any of the Zones. 
• If there are 2 vehicles registered to the address and 1 parking space at a house located in Zone C, then 
the entitlement is for 1 Resident Parking Permit. 
 
Copies of all vehicle registration papers for the applicant’s address must be presented to confirm entitlement. 
 
Resident Parking Permits exempt the holders’ vehicles from time limits and/or meter parking fees for the area 
indicated on the permit. 
 
Further Conditions Apply. For details about parking zones, please refer to the Resident Parking Permit 
Policy, on our website at www.northsydney.nsw.gov.au or contact the Customer Service Centre on 
9936 8100 for further detailed information. 
 